This is a brief lecture about some of
the training control options that you
have when training while
using the caret package.
For this lecture, we're going to be using
the spam example again just to illustrate
how these ideas work.
So we load the caret package,
the kernlab package, and
then we attach the spam dataset.
Then we use the createDataPartition
function to
create a set of endices
corresponding to the training set.
And we set about 75% of the data
to be in the training set.
Then we define training and testing
sets using those indicator functions.
So usually what you would do when you
fit a model is basically just use
the train function, like this, where you
basically set all of the defaults to be
whatever defaults that the train
function chooses for you.
Other than maybe the method that
you're going to be using to fit and
which data set you're going to be using.
You can go a little bit further than this,
though.
For example, you can use a large
set of options for training.
So, here are a couple of them.
One, you can use this preProcess parameter
to set a bunch of preprocessing options.
We'll talk about that in a future lecture.
You can also set weights.
In other words, you can upweight or
downweight certain observations.
These are particularly useful if you have
very unbalanced training set where you
have a lot more examples
of one type than another.
You can set the metric, so by default for
factor variable, in other words for
categorical variables the default metric
is accuracy that it's trying to maximize.
For continuous variables it's
the root mean squared error,
like we talked about
in a previous lecture.
So, you can also set a large number of
other control parameters using this
trControl parameter here and
you have to pass it a call to this
particular function, trainControl, which
we'll talk about in a couple of slides.
So the Metric options are built-in to the
train function for continuous outcomes.
Our RMSE, or root mean squared error.
You can also use RSquared.
This is the RSquared that you
get from a regression model if
you remember that from
the inference class.
RSquared is a measure of linear agreement
between the variables that you're
predicting and
the variables that you predict with.
Linear agreement is very useful if
you're using linear regression and
things like that.
It may not be so
useful if you're doing more non-linear
things like random forests and so forth.
Accuracy is the fraction correct.
So that's just the number
that you get correct.
And that's the default measure of
accuracy for categorical outcomes.
You can also tell it to use Kappa,
which is a measure of concordance.
I've linked here to
a definition of that measure.
It's a more in-depth, more complicated
measure that's frequently used in some
competitions like and other competitions.
The trainControl argument allows
you to be much more precise about
the way that you train models.
You can tell it which method to use for
resampling the data whether it's
bootstrapping or cross validation
which we'll talk about in a minute.
You can tell it the number of times to
do bootstrapping or cross validation.
You could also tell it how many times to
repeat that whole process if you want to
be careful about repeated
cross-validation.
You can tell it the size of the training
set with this p parameter, and
then you can tell it a bunch of other
parameters that depend on the specific
problems you're working on.
So for example, for
time course data, initial window tells
you the size of the training dataset,
the size of the number of time points
that will be in the training data.
And horizon is the number of time
points that you'll be predicting.
You can also have it return the actual
predictions themselves from each of
the iterations when it's
building the model.
You can also have it return
a different summary,
use a different summary function than
the default summary if you'd like it to.
And then you can set preprocessing options
as well as things like prediction bounds,
and you can set the seeds for
all the different resampling layers.
This is particularly useful if you're
going to be parallelizing your
computations across multiple cores.
We're not going to cover that too
extensively here, but if you're training
models on large numbers of samples
with a high number of predictors,
using parallel processing
can be highly useful for
proving the computational
efficiency of your analysis.
For resampling, there are a bunch
of methods that are offered,
so this is again passed to
the trainControl function.
You can use standard bootstrapping,
you can use bootstrapping that adjusts for
the fact that multiple
samples are repeatedly
resampled when you're
doing that subsampling.
This will reduce some of
the bias due to bootstrapping.
You can use cross validation which is
a method that we've talked about in
previous lectures.
You could also use repeated cross
validation if you want to do
sub cross validation with
different random draws.
You could use leave one
out cross validation and
remember there's a bias during
its trade off between using
large number of folds and smaller number
of folds when doing cross validation.
You can also tell it the number
of bootstrap samples or
the number of subsamples to take and the
number of times to repeat that subsampling
if you're doing something like
repeated cross validation.
All of these parameters can be set.
In general the defaults work pretty well,
but if you have large numbers of samples
or you have a model that requires
fine tuning across a large number of
parameters, you may want to increase for
example the number of cross-validation or
bootstrap samples that you take.
Finally, an important component of
training these models is setting the seed.
So what I mean by that is most of
these procedures rely on random
resampling of the data.
And if you rerun the protocol over again,
or
rerun the code over again, you will get
a slightly different answer because there
was a random draw that was created
when you were doing cross-validation.
If you set a seed, a random number seed,
what that'll do is that'll ensure that
the same random numbers
get generated each time.
It's a little bit of a difficult
concept to get your head around but
the idea is that the computer is
generating pseudo random numbers.
And if you set the seed it will generate
the same sequence of pseudo random
numbers again.
It's very useful often
to set the overall seed.
This is a seed for the entire procedure so
you get repeatable results.
If you're doing parallel computation you
can also set the seed for each resample.
You can do that with a seed argument
to the train control function.
Seeding each resamples is particularly
useful for parallel fits but
it's often not necessary when
you're doing all your processing
that in way that isn't parallel.
So, here's an example of that.
If I set the seed using
the set.seed function in R, and
then I give it a number,
an integer number,
it will set a seed that's consistent
with performance analysis.
So it will generate a set of
random numbers that is consistent.
So then if I fit my model, like this,
then when it generates bootstrap samples.
It will generate those bootstrap samples
according to the random numbers that come
from this seed.
If I then reset the seed again, and
fit the model again, now with a different
number, modelFit3 instead of modelFit2,
then I will get exactly the same
bootstrap samples and exactly the same
measures of accuracy back out again.
This is important when
you're training models and
then you want to share your training
data set with someone else and
ensure that you get the same answer
when they run the same code.
There's more information about this in the
caret tutorial which I think is very good.
And also in this document
about model training and
tuning with the caret package.